ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
LAYAA AI PRIVATE LIMITED
Table F of Schedule I of the Companies Act, 2013 applies to this Company as modified by the following Articles.
INTERPRETATION
1. In these regulations – (a) The Act means the Companies Act 2013 (b) The Seal means the common seal of the company.
2. Unless the context otherwise requires, words or expressions contained in these regulations shall bear the same meaning as in the Act or any statutory modification thereof in force at the date at which these regulations become binding on the company.
Private Limited - The company is a private company within the meaning of Section 2(68) of the Companies Act 2013 and accordingly company having a minimum paid-up share capital as may be prescribed and which by its articles (i) restricts the right to transfer its shares (ii) except in case of One Person Company, limits the number of its members to two hundred, and (iii) prohibits any invitation to the public to subscribe for any securities of the company.
SHARE CAPITAL AND VARIATION OF RIGHTS
II.1. Subject to the provisions of the Act and these Articles, the shares in the capital of the company shall be under the control of the Directors who may issue, allot or otherwise dispose of the same or any of them to such persons in such proportion and on such terms and conditions and either at a premium or at par and at such time as they may from time to time think fit.
2. Every person whose name is entered as a member in the register of members shall be entitled to receive within two months after incorporation in case of subscribers to the memorandum or after allotment or within one month after the application for the registration of transfer or transmission or within such other period as the conditions of issue shall be provided one certificate for all his shares without payment of any charges or several certificates each for one or more of his shares upon payment of twenty rupees for each certificate after the first.
3. If any share certificate be worn out, defaced, mutilated or torn or if there be no further space on the back for endorsement of transfer then upon production and surrender thereof to the company a new certificate may be issued in lieu thereof and if any certificate is lost or destroyed then upon proof thereof to the satisfaction of the company and on execution of such indemnity as the company deem adequate a new certificate in lieu thereof shall be given.
4. The provisions of Articles 2 and 3 shall mutatis mutandis apply to debentures of the company.
5. Except as required by law, no person shall be recognised by the company as holding any share upon any trust and the company shall not be bound by or be compelled in any way to recognise any equitable, contingent, future or partial interest in any share except an absolute right to the entirety thereof in the registered holder.
6. The company may exercise the powers of paying commissions conferred by sub-section (6) of section 40 provided that the rate per cent or the amount of the commission paid or agreed to be paid shall be disclosed in the manner required by that section and rules made thereunder.
7. If at any time the share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may, subject to the provisions of section 48 and whether or not the company is being wound up, be varied with the consent in writing of the holders of three-fourths of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
8. Subject to the provisions of section 55, any preference shares may with the sanction of an ordinary resolution be issued on the terms that they are to be redeemed on such terms and in such manner as the company before the issue of the shares may by special resolution determine.
LIEN
9. The company shall have a first and paramount lien on every share (not being a fully paid share) for all monies (whether presently payable or not) called or payable at a fixed time in respect of that share. The company's lien, if any, on a share shall extend to all dividends payable and bonuses declared from time to time in respect of such shares.
10. The company may sell in such manner as the Board thinks fit any shares on which the company has a lien, provided that no sale shall be made unless a sum in respect of which the lien exists is presently payable and until the expiration of fourteen days after a notice in writing has been given to the registered holder.
11. To give effect to any such sale, the Board may authorise some person to transfer the shares sold to the purchaser thereof. The purchaser shall be registered as the holder of the shares and shall not be bound to see to the application of the purchase money.
12. The proceeds of the sale shall be received by the company and applied in payment of such part of the amount in respect of which the lien exists as is presently payable. The residue, if any, shall be paid to the person entitled to the shares at the date of the sale.
CALLS ON SHARES
13. The Board may from time to time make calls upon the members in respect of any monies unpaid on their shares and not by the conditions of allotment thereof made payable at fixed times, provided that no call shall exceed one-fourth of the nominal value of the share or be payable at less than one month from the date fixed for the payment of the last preceding call.
14. A call shall be deemed to have been made at the time when the resolution of the Board authorizing the call was passed and may be required to be paid by instalments.
15. The joint holders of a share shall be jointly and severally liable to pay all calls in respect thereof.
16. If a sum called in respect of a share is not paid before or on the day appointed for payment thereof, the person from whom the sum is due shall pay interest thereon from the day appointed for payment thereof to the time of actual payment at ten per cent per annum or at such lower rate if any as the Board may determine.
17. Any sum which by the terms of issue of a share becomes payable on allotment or at any fixed date shall for the purposes of these regulations be deemed to be a call duly made and payable on the date on which by the terms of issue such sum becomes payable.
TRANSFER OF SHARES
18. The instrument of transfer of any share in the company shall be executed by or on behalf of both the transferor and transferee. The transferor shall be deemed to remain a holder of the share until the name of the transferee is entered in the register of members in respect thereof.
19. The Board may subject to the right of appeal conferred by section 58 decline to register the transfer of a share not being a fully paid share to a person of whom they do not approve or any transfer of shares on which the company has a lien.
20. The Board may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer unless: (a) the instrument of transfer is in the form as prescribed in rules made under sub-section (1) of section 56, (b) the instrument of transfer is accompanied by the certificate of the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require, and (c) the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of shares.
21. On giving not less than seven days previous notice in accordance with section 91, the registration of transfers may be suspended at such times and for such periods as the Board may from time to time determine, provided that such registration shall not be suspended for more than thirty days at any one time or for more than forty-five days in the aggregate in any year.
TRANSMISSION OF SHARES
22. On the death of a member, the survivor or survivors where the member was a joint holder and his nominee or nominees or legal representatives where he was a sole holder shall be the only persons recognised by the company as having any title to his interest in the shares.
23. Any person becoming entitled to a share in consequence of the death or insolvency of a member may upon such evidence being produced elect either to be registered himself as holder of the share or to make such transfer of the share as the deceased or insolvent member could have made.
24. If the person so becoming entitled shall elect to be registered as holder of the share himself, he shall deliver or send to the company a notice in writing signed by him stating that he so elects.
25. A person becoming entitled to a share by reason of the death or insolvency of the holder shall be entitled to the same dividends and other advantages to which he would be entitled if he were the registered holder of the share, except that he shall not, before being registered as a member in respect of the share, be entitled in respect of it to exercise any right conferred by membership in relation to meetings of the company.
26. The Board may at any time give notice requiring any such person to elect either to be registered himself or to transfer the share, and if the notice is not complied with within ninety days, the Board may thereafter withhold payment of all dividends, bonuses or other monies payable in respect of the share until the requirements of the notice have been complied with.
27. In case of a One Person Company, on the death of the sole member, the person nominated by such member shall be the person recognised by the company as having title to all the shares of the member.
FORFEITURE OF SHARES
28. If a member fails to pay any call or instalment of a call on the day appointed for payment thereof, the Board may at any time thereafter serve a notice on him requiring payment of so much of the call or instalment as is unpaid together with any interest which may have accrued.
29. The notice aforesaid shall name a further day (not being earlier than the expiry of fourteen days from the date of service of the notice) on or before which the payment required by the notice is to be made and state that in the event of non-payment the shares shall be liable to be forfeited.
30. If the requirements of any such notice are not complied with, any share in respect of which the notice has been given may at any time thereafter before payment be forfeited by a resolution of the Board to that effect.
31. A forfeited share may be sold or otherwise disposed of on such terms and in such manner as the Board thinks fit. At any time before a sale or disposal, the Board may cancel the forfeiture on such terms as it thinks fit.
32. A person whose shares have been forfeited shall cease to be a member in respect of the forfeited shares but shall notwithstanding remain liable to pay to the company all monies which at the date of forfeiture were presently payable by him to the company.
33. A duly verified declaration in writing that the declarant is a director and that a share in the company has been duly forfeited on a date stated in the declaration shall be conclusive evidence of the facts therein stated as against all persons claiming to be entitled to the share.
34. The provisions of these regulations as to forfeiture shall apply in the case of non-payment of any sum which by the terms of issue of a share becomes payable at a fixed time.
ALTERATION OF CAPITAL
35. The company may from time to time by ordinary resolution increase the share capital by such sum to be divided into shares of such amount as may be specified in the resolution.
36. Subject to the provisions of section 61, the company may by ordinary resolution consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of larger amount, convert fully paid-up shares into stock and reconvert that stock into shares, sub-divide shares, or cancel shares not taken.
37. Where shares are converted into stock, the holders of stock may transfer the same or any part thereof in the same manner as shares could have been transferred.
38. The company may by special resolution reduce in any manner its share capital, any capital redemption reserve account or any share premium account.
CAPITALISATION OF PROFITS
39. The company in general meeting may upon the recommendation of the Board resolve to capitalise any part of the amount standing to the credit of any of the company's reserve accounts or to the credit of the profit and loss account and set free for distribution amongst the members in the manner specified.
40. Whenever such a resolution shall have been passed, the Board shall make all appropriations and applications of the undivided profits resolved to be capitalised thereby and do all acts and things required to give effect thereto.
BUY-BACK OF SHARES
41. Notwithstanding anything contained in these articles but subject to the provisions of sections 68 to 70 and any other applicable provision of the Act, the company may purchase its own shares or other specified securities.
GENERAL MEETINGS
42. All general meetings other than annual general meeting shall be called extraordinary general meeting.
43. The Board may whenever it thinks fit call an extraordinary general meeting.
PROCEEDINGS AT GENERAL MEETINGS
44. No business shall be transacted at any general meeting unless a quorum of members is present at the time when the meeting proceeds to business. The quorum for the general meetings shall be as provided in section 103.
45. The chairperson, if any, of the Board shall preside as Chairperson at every general meeting of the company.
46. If there is no such Chairperson or if he is not present within fifteen minutes after the time appointed or is unwilling to act, the directors present shall elect one of their members to be Chairperson of the meeting.
47. If at any meeting no director is willing to act as Chairperson or if no director is present within fifteen minutes, the members present shall choose one of their members to be Chairperson of the meeting.
48. In case of a One Person Company, the resolution required to be passed at the general meetings shall be deemed to have been passed if the resolution is agreed upon by the sole member and communicated to the company.
ADJOURNMENT OF MEETING
49. The Chairperson may with the consent of any meeting at which a quorum is present, and shall if so directed by the meeting, adjourn the meeting from time to time and from place to place.
VOTING RIGHTS
50. Subject to any rights or restrictions for the time being attached to any class of shares, on a show of hands every member present in person shall have one vote and on a poll the voting rights of members shall be in proportion to his share in the paid-up equity share capital of the company.
51. A member may exercise his vote at a meeting by electronic means in accordance with section 108 and shall vote only once.
52. In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
53. A member of unsound mind or in respect of whom an order has been made by any court may vote by his committee or other legal guardian.
54. No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting unless all calls or other sums presently payable by him in respect of shares in the company have been paid.
55. No objection shall be raised to the qualification of any voter except at the meeting at which the vote objected to is given or tendered and every vote not disallowed at such meeting shall be valid.
PROXY
56. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power-of-attorney or other authority shall be deposited at the registered office not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
57. An instrument appointing a proxy shall be in the form as prescribed in the rules made under section 105.
58. A vote given in accordance with the terms of an instrument of proxy shall be valid notwithstanding the previous death or insanity of the principal or revocation of the proxy, provided that no intimation in writing of such death, insanity, revocation or transfer shall have been received by the company before the commencement of the meeting.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
59. The first directors of the Company shall be: 1- ABHIMANYU SINGH, 2- SHUBHAM SHARMA.
60. The remuneration of the directors shall in so far as it consists of a monthly payment be deemed to accrue from day-to-day.
61. In addition to the remuneration payable to them in pursuance of the Act, the directors may be paid all travelling, hotel and other expenses properly incurred by them.
62. The Board may pay all expenses incurred in getting up and registering the company.
63. The company may exercise the powers conferred on it by section 88 with regard to the keeping of a foreign register.
64. All cheques, promissory notes, drafts and other negotiable instruments shall be signed, drawn, accepted, endorsed or otherwise executed by such person and in such manner as the Board shall from time to time determine.
65. Every director present at any meeting of the Board shall sign his name in a book to be kept for that purpose.
66. Subject to the provisions of section 149, the Board shall have power at any time to appoint a person as an additional director provided the number of directors together shall not exceed the maximum strength fixed for the Board by the articles.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD
67. The Board of Directors may meet for the conduct of business, adjourn and otherwise regulate its meetings as it thinks fit.
68. Save as otherwise expressly provided in the Act, questions arising at any meeting of the Board shall be decided by a majority of votes. In case of an equality of votes, the Chairperson of the Board, if any, shall have a second or casting vote.
69. The continuing directors may act notwithstanding any vacancy in the Board but if their number is reduced below the quorum, they may act only for the purpose of increasing the number of directors or of summoning a general meeting.
70. The Board may elect a Chairperson of its meetings and determine the period for which he is to hold office.
71. The Board may subject to the provisions of the Act delegate any of its powers to committees consisting of such member or members of its body as it thinks fit.
72. A committee may elect a Chairperson of its meetings. If no such Chairperson is elected, the members present may choose one of their members to be Chairperson.
73. A committee may meet and adjourn as it thinks fit. Questions arising at any meeting shall be determined by a majority of votes of the members present.
74. All acts done in any meeting of the Board or of a committee shall be valid notwithstanding that it may be afterwards discovered that there was some defect in the appointment of any director.
75. A resolution in writing signed by all the members of the Board or of a committee shall be valid and effective as if it had been passed at a meeting duly convened and held.
76. In case of a One Person Company where the company is having only one director, all the businesses to be transacted at the meeting of the Board shall be entered into minutes book maintained under section 118.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, MANAGER, COMPANY SECRETARY OR CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
77. Subject to the provisions of the Act, a chief executive officer, manager, company secretary or chief financial officer may be appointed by the Board for such term, at such remuneration and upon such conditions as it may think fit.
78. A provision of the Act or these regulations requiring or authorising a thing to be done by or to a director and chief executive officer, manager, company secretary or chief financial officer shall not be satisfied by its being done by or to the same person acting both as director and as officer.
THE SEAL
79. The Board shall provide for the safe custody of the seal. The seal of the company shall not be affixed to any instrument except by the authority of a resolution of the Board and in the presence of at least two directors and of the secretary, and those directors and the secretary shall sign every instrument to which the seal is so affixed.
DIVIDENDS AND RESERVE
80. The company in general meeting may declare dividends but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
81. Subject to the provisions of section 123, the Board may from time to time pay to the members such interim dividends as appear to it to be justified by the profits of the company.
82. The Board may before recommending any dividend set aside out of the profits such sums as it thinks fit as a reserve or reserves which shall be applicable for any purpose.
83. Subject to the rights of persons entitled to shares with special rights as to dividends, all dividends shall be declared and paid according to the amounts paid or credited as paid on the shares.
84. The Board may deduct from any dividend payable to any member all sums of money presently payable by him to the company on account of calls or otherwise.
85. Any dividend, interest or other monies payable in cash may be paid by cheque or warrant sent through the post directed to the registered address of the holder.
86. Any one of two or more joint holders may give effective receipts for any dividends, bonuses or other monies payable in respect of such share.
87. Notice of any dividend that may have been declared shall be given to the persons entitled to share therein in the manner mentioned in the Act.
88. No dividend shall bear interest against the company.
ACCOUNTS
89. The Board shall from time to time determine whether and to what extent and at what times and places and under what conditions the accounts and books of the company shall be open to the inspection of members not being directors.
WINDING UP
90. Subject to the provisions of Chapter XX of the Act and rules made thereunder, if the company shall be wound up, the liquidator may with the sanction of a special resolution divide amongst the members in specie or kind the whole or any part of the assets of the company.
INDEMNITY
91. Every officer of the company shall be indemnified out of the assets of the company against any liability incurred by him in defending any proceedings whether civil or criminal in which judgment is given in his favour or in which he is acquitted or in which relief is granted to him by the court or the Tribunal.
ADDITIONAL ARTICLES
(Incorporating Shareholders Agreement Provisions)
ARTICLE 92: ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of these Articles, in addition to definitions in Article 1:
"Vested Shares" means Shares that have vested in accordance with Article 93;
"Unvested Shares" means Shares that have not yet vested in accordance with Article 93;
"Fair Market Value" means the value of Shares as determined by an independent chartered accountant or registered valuer mutually agreed upon by the parties, or failing agreement, appointed by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India;
"Good Leaver" means a Member who ceases involvement with the Company due to: (a) death or permanent incapacity; (b) mutual agreement of all Members; (c) retirement after reaching age 60; or (d) any other reason deemed acceptable by the Board;
"Bad Leaver" means a Member who: (a) is removed for cause including material breach, fraud, gross negligence, or willful misconduct; (b) voluntarily resigns without Board approval; (c) is convicted of a criminal offense; or (d) materially breaches confidentiality or non-compete obligations;
"Company IP" means all intellectual property created, developed, or acquired by or on behalf of the Company, including AI models, algorithms, code, datasets, prompts, training pipelines, patents, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets;
"Reserved Matters" means those matters specified in Article 96 requiring Member approval;
"Founding Members" means Abhimanyu Singh and Shubham Sharma.
ARTICLE 93: VESTING OF FOUNDER SHARES
93.1 Vesting Schedule. The Shares held by the Founding Members shall vest over a period of four (4) years from the date of incorporation (the "Vesting Commencement Date") as follows:
(a) Cliff Period: No Shares shall vest during the first twelve (12) months from the Vesting Commencement Date;
(b) Cliff Vesting: Upon completion of the Cliff Period, twenty-five percent (25%) of the total Shares allocated to each Founding Member shall vest;
(c) Monthly Vesting: Following the Cliff Period, the remaining seventy-five percent (75%) of Shares shall vest in equal monthly installments over the subsequent thirty-six (36) months.
93.2 Acceleration of Vesting. Vesting shall be accelerated in the following circumstances:
(a) Change of Control: Upon a sale of the Company or merger resulting in change of control, all Unvested Shares shall immediately vest;
(b) Death or Permanent Incapacity: All Unvested Shares shall immediately vest in the event of a Member's death or permanent incapacity as certified by a qualified medical practitioner;
(c) Mutual Agreement: With unanimous written consent of all Members.
93.3 Treatment of Unvested Shares Upon Exit. Upon a Member ceasing involvement with the Company:
(a) Good Leaver: Retains all Vested Shares; Unvested Shares shall be bought back by the Company at Fair Market Value or cancelled at the Company's discretion;
(b) Bad Leaver: All Unvested Shares shall immediately be forfeited and transferred back to the Company for nominal consideration of ₹1 per share. Vested Shares may be purchased by the Company or remaining Members at the lower of (i) Fair Market Value or (ii) the original subscription price.
ARTICLE 94: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OWNERSHIP
94.1 Company IP Ownership. All intellectual property created, developed, conceived, or reduced to practice in connection with the Company's business, including without limitation:
AI models, neural networks, and model weights;
Algorithms, architectures, and computational methods;
Source code, software, scripts, and repositories;
Datasets, training data, and data pipelines;
Prompts, prompt engineering techniques, and fine-tuning methodologies;
Documentation, technical specifications, and methodologies;
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets;
shall be the exclusive and absolute property of the Company.
94.2 Assignment of Rights. Each Member, Director, officer, and employee hereby irrevocably and unconditionally assigns, transfers, and conveys to the Company all right, title, and interest in and to any and all Company IP created by them, whether alone or jointly with others. This assignment includes all present and future IP rights worldwide.
94.3 Prohibition on Personal Use. No Member shall:
Claim any ownership rights in Company IP;
Use, reproduce, or exploit Company IP for personal benefit or outside the Company's business;
Fork, clone, replicate, or create derivative works from Company IP without written authorization;
Disclose or transfer Company IP to third parties without proper authorization.
94.4 Cooperation. Each Member agrees to execute all documents and take all actions reasonably necessary to perfect the Company's ownership of Company IP, including execution of patent applications, copyright registrations, and assignments.
ARTICLE 95: ENHANCED TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS
95.1 General Restriction. Notwithstanding any other provision in these Articles, no Member shall sell, transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate, or otherwise dispose of any Shares except in accordance with this Article 95.
95.2 Right of First Refusal (ROFR). If a Member ("Selling Member") wishes to transfer any Shares:
(a) The Selling Member shall provide written notice to all other Members and the Company, specifying the number of Shares, proposed purchase price, and identity of the proposed purchaser;
(b) The other Members shall have thirty (30) days from receipt of the notice to elect to purchase the offered Shares on the same terms, pro-rata to their existing shareholding;
(c) If the other Members elect to purchase all offered Shares, the transaction shall be completed within sixty (60) days;
(d) If the other Members decline or fail to respond, the Selling Member may proceed with the third-party sale on the same terms, provided the transferee agrees in writing to be bound by these Articles.
95.3 Permitted Transfers. Notwithstanding the ROFR provisions, Shares may be transferred without triggering ROFR:
(a) To immediate family members (spouse, children, parents) or to a trust for the benefit of the Member or their family, provided the transferee agrees to be bound by these Articles;
(b) Pursuant to operation of law (e.g., inheritance, bankruptcy), provided legal heirs or successors agree to be bound by these Articles.
95.4 Binding Effect on Transferees. Any permitted transferee of Shares must execute a deed of adherence agreeing to be bound by all terms and conditions of these Articles.
ARTICLE 96: RESERVED MATTERS REQUIRING MEMBER APPROVAL
96.1 Member Approval Required. Notwithstanding any other power conferred upon the Board, the following matters shall require prior written approval of Members holding more than fifty percent (50%) of the issued share capital:
Material change in the business scope or objectives of the Company;
Issuance, allotment, or transfer of any Shares or securities;
Incurring borrowings, debt, or financial obligations exceeding ₹5,00,000 in aggregate;
Acquisition, merger, or sale of the Company or substantial assets;
Entering into transactions with related parties above ₹1,00,000;
Amendment of the Articles of Association or Memorandum of Association;
Voluntary winding up, liquidation, or dissolution of the Company;
Appointment or removal of statutory auditors;
Creation of any subsidiary or joint venture;
Sale, lease, or disposal of Company IP or material assets;
Entering into any agreement or commitment exceeding ₹3,00,000 per annum.
ARTICLE 97: TAG-ALONG AND DRAG-ALONG RIGHTS
97.1 Tag-Along Rights. If a Member holding more than fifty percent (50%) of the Shares ("Majority Member") proposes to sell their Shares to a third party:
(a) The Majority Member shall notify all other Members ("Minority Members") in writing of the proposed sale, including price and terms;
(b) Each Minority Member shall have the right to participate in the sale and sell their Shares to the same purchaser on the same terms and conditions, pro-rata to their shareholding;
(c) Minority Members must exercise this right within fifteen (15) days of receiving notice.
97.2 Drag-Along Rights. If Members holding more than seventy-five percent (75%) of the Shares agree to sell all or substantially all of the Company's shares or assets to a third party:
(a) Such Members may require all other Members to sell their Shares on the same terms and conditions;
(b) The dragging Members shall provide at least thirty (30) days' written notice to dragged Members;
(c) All Members shall receive the same per-share consideration and be subject to the same terms;
(d) Dragged Members shall cooperate in good faith and execute all documents reasonably necessary to consummate the transaction.
ARTICLE 98: PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS ON NEW ISSUE
98.1 Pre-emption Rights. No new Shares shall be issued or allotted except as follows:
(a) The Company shall first offer such Shares to existing Members pro-rata to their shareholding;
(b) Existing Members shall have thirty (30) days to accept the offer;
(c) If any Member declines or fails to accept, other Members may subscribe for the declined Shares;
(d) Only after existing Members have had the opportunity to subscribe may the Shares be offered to third parties, subject to Reserved Matters approval.
ARTICLE 99: DEADLOCK RESOLUTION
99.1 Definition of Deadlock. A deadlock shall be deemed to exist if the Members or Board cannot reach agreement on a Reserved Matter despite good faith negotiations for a period of thirty (30) days.
99.2 Deadlock Resolution Process. In the event of a deadlock, the following resolution process shall apply:
(a) Step 1 - Negotiation: The Members shall attempt to resolve the deadlock through good faith negotiation for an additional fifteen (15) days;
(b) Step 2 - Mediation: If negotiation fails, the Members shall appoint a mutually acceptable mediator. The mediation process shall last no more than thirty (30) days;
(c) Step 3 - Majority Decision: If mediation fails, the matter shall be decided by Members holding more than 50% of the issued share capital. The decision of the majority shall be binding;
(d) Step 4 - Buy-Sell Option: As a last resort, either Member may initiate a buy-sell mechanism whereby: (i) the initiating Member makes an offer to either buy all Shares held by the other Member or sell all their Shares at a specified price; (ii) the receiving Member must elect within thirty (30) days to either buy or sell at the offered price; (iii) the transaction shall close within sixty (60) days of the election.
ARTICLE 100: EXIT PROVISIONS
100.1 Exit Obligations. Upon a Member ceasing to hold Shares in the Company, such exiting Member shall:
Immediately return or destroy all Company property, documents, data, and materials;
Delete all Company data from personal devices and systems;
Provide written certification of compliance within fifteen (15) days;
Resign from all positions as director, officer, or representative;
Remain bound by confidentiality, non-compete, and non-solicitation obligations.
CERTIFICATION
We, the subscribers to the Memorandum of Association of Layaa AI Private Limited, hereby certify that the above are the Articles of Association of the Company, consisting of Articles 1 to 100, incorporating provisions from Table F of Schedule I of the Companies Act, 2013 as modified and supplemented by the foregoing Articles.
These Articles shall be read and construed in conjunction with any Shareholders Agreement executed between the Members.
- END OF ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION -